A Guide to the Updated NumericalTextInput
-----------------------------------------

Written by IanSav -  4-Sep-2018

This document explains the changes and updates to the NumericalTextInput 
of Enigma2.  The code is located in:
	/usr/lib/enigma2/python/Tools/NumericalTextInput.py

The revision has been designed to be a drop in replacement for the previous 
versions.

The revised NumericalTextInput is now heavly driven by laguage based data 
tables.  English is no longer the only fully supported language.  The 
design of the tables is to allow symmetry of features for ALL the supported 
languages.

One of the changes is to offer all ASCII printable characters for selection 
via the SMS style data entry in all available locales.  The new characters 
have been added to the "0" and "1" buttons.

The original calling parameters "nextFunc=", "handleTimeout=" and "mapping=" 
are unchanged.  The function parameter "nextFunc=" defines a call-back 
function that is called when a character has been selected.  The Boolean 
parameter "handleTimeout=" specifies if NumericalTextInput should set its 
own timers to handle the character recognition task.  The tuple parameter 
"mapping=" allows a programmer to supply tupple of the characters to be 
used in the NumericalTextInput UI and processing.

The original Boolean "search=" calling parameter is still offered but is 
now deprecated.  In its original use the Boolean parameter allowed a 
programmer to nominate that the NumericalTextInput is to be used to enter 
a search string.  Selecting this option now simply selects the "Search" 
mode.  It is suggested, and recommended, that all code that refers to 
NumericalTextInput should change any "search=" parameters to an appropriate 
"mode=" parameter.

A new calling parameter "mode=" has been added to more selectively control 
the available data entry configurations of the new NumericalTextInput.  The 
"mode=" options are as follows:

	"Default"
		This option offers digits and the entire alphabet in both 
		upper and lower case for the current locale.

	"DefaultUpper"
		This option offers digits and the entire alphabet in upper 
		case only for the current locale.

	"DefaultLower"
		This option offers digits and the entire alphabet in lower 
		case only for the current locale.

	"Hex"
		This option offers hex digits "0" to "F" in both upper and 
		lower case.  The letters "abcABC" are associated with the 
		digit "2" and the letters "defDEF" are associated with the 
		digit "3".

	"HexUpper"
		This option offers hex digits "0" to "F" in upper case. 
		The letters "ABC" are associated with the digit "2" and 
		the letters "DEF" are associated with the digit "3".

	"HexLower"
		This option offers hex digits "0" to "f" in lower case. 
		The letters "abc" are associated with the digit "2" and 
		the letters "def" are associated with the digit "3".

	"HexFast"
		This option offers hex digits "0" to "F" in both upper and 
		lower case.  For faster data entry the letters "aA", "bB", 
		"cC", "dD", "eE" and "fF" are associated with the digits 
		"1", "2", "3", "4", "5" and "6" respectively.

	"HexFastUpper"
		This option offers hex digits "0" to "F" in upper case. 
		For faster data entry the letters "A", "B", "C", "D", 
		"E" and "F" are associated with the digits "1", "2", "3", 
		"4", "5" and "6" respectively.

	"HexFastLower"
		This option offers hex digits "0" to "f" in lower case. 
		For faster data entry the letters "a", "b", "c", "d", 
		"e" and "f" are associated with the digits "1", "2", "3", 
		"4", "5" and "6" respectively.

	"HexFastLogical"
		This option offers hex digits "0" to "F" in both upper and 
		lower case.  For faster data entry the letters "aA", "bB", 
		"cC", "dD", "eE" and "fF" are associated with the digits 
		"0", "1", "2", "3", "4" and "5" respectively.

	"HexFastLogicalUpper"
		This option offers hex digits "0" to "F" in upper case. 
		For faster data entry the letters "A", "B", "C", "D", 
		"E" and "F" are associated with the digits "0", "1", "2", 
		"3", "4" and "5" respectively.

	"HexFastLogicalLower"
		This option offers hex digits "0" to "f" in lower case. 
		For faster data entry the letters "a", "b", "c", "d", 
		"e" and "f" are associated with the digits "0", "1", "2", 
		"3", "4" and "5" respectively.

	"Search"
		By default this option offers digits and the entire alphabet 
		in both upper and lower case for the current locale.

	"SearchUpper"
		By default this option offers digits and the entire alphabet 
		in upper case only for the current locale.

	"SearchLower"
		By default this option offers digits and the entire alphabet 
		in lower case only for the current locale.

The "Default" and "Search" range of modes should be self explanatory.  The 
different hex options are provided to allow the coder to offer users 
alternative modes of hex character entry.

1) The "Hex" range of modes offer a more conventional data entry model 
   where the hex characters are offerd associated with the text printed on 
   the remote control buttons.

2) The "HexFast" range of modes offer hex data entry with fewer button 
   presses required.

3) The HexFastLogical" range of modes offer hex data entry with a more 
   accurate / logical sequence to the letter locations.  These modes are 
   offered for completeness but while logically more appropriate this 
   option should be used with care as it may confuse non technical users.

---END---
